chore/snmp profiles (#15101)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/advanced/snmp-profiles.mdx

  - Integrations
  - Network monitoring
  - Advanced configuration
  - SNMP
metaDescription: Detailed explanation of SNMP profile creation and editing.
redirects:
  - /docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-profiles/
---

Profiles define both the SNMP OIDs that `ktranslate` collects and how it will process received SNMP trap messages. This document explains both how to modify an existing profile or create a new profile.

## Requirements [#requirements]

> * A [GitHub account](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github/signing-up-for-a-new-github-account) where you can fork the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles) repository and create pull requests for your changes.

Author: sounds great

* An [SNMP walk](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/troubleshooting/snmp-walk/#capturing-snmpwalk) from a network device for polling profiles.
* For SNMP trap messages, you should also have access to the MIB from the vendor that defines the messages.

<Callout variant="important">

>   New Relic does not provide support directly for the contents of the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles). If an existing SNMP profile is returning incorrect data or another breaking behavior, open an issue on the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles) repository. We are unable to provide timelines for modification or creation of SNMP profiles in the third party for `ktranslate`.

Author: thsi snippet came from legal, I wouldn't want to edit it any more

>   New Relic does not provide support directly for the contents of the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles). In the event that an existing SNMP profile is returning incorrect data or another breaking behavior, open an issue on the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles) repository. We are unable to provide timelines for modification or creation of SNMP profiles in the third party for `ktranslate`.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
<Callout variant="important">
  New Relic does not provide support directly for the contents of the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles). If an existing SNMP profile is returning incorrect data or another breaking behavior, open an issue on the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles) repository. We are unable to provide timelines for modification or creation of SNMP profiles in the third party for `ktranslate`.
```

            <Collapser
              id="extends"
              title="'extends' section"
            >
            This section shows inheritance of other profiles. This is used to reduce the need to add individual OIDs from high-level MIBs into every single profile. Common examples can be found in the [_general](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/tree/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/_general) directory of the repository.

            The syntax here is a list of file names you wish to reference.

            ```yaml
            extends:
              - system-mib.yml
              - ups-mib.yml
            ```
            </Collapser>
            <Collapser
              id="provider"
              title="'provider' section"
            >
            This section identifies the value of `provider` which will be decorated as an attribute for all payloads sent to New Relic.

            The syntax here is a string value using [kebab-case](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/snake-case-vs-camel-case-vs-pascal-case-vs-kebab-case-whats-the-difference/#kebab-case).

            ```yaml
            provider: kentik-ups
            ```

            <Callout variant="tip">

>               The value of `provider` is critical to [entity synthesis](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic/#entity-synthesis) in New Relic. More details can be found in the [documentation on device configuration](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/advanced/advanced-config/#devices). If you are using your own profiles, you'll need to either use an existing value that is already mapped to an entity, create a pull request to the [newrelic/entity-definitions](https://github.com/newrelic/entity-definitions) repository, or create your own custom dashboard experience to view your data.

Author: i like this one; on `2127` should you add a space here?

```
*Create your own custom dashboard experience to view your data.
```

vs

```
* Create your own custom dashboard experience to view your data.
```

            </Callout>
            </Collapser>
            <Collapser
              id="sysobjectid"
              title="'sysobjectid' section"
            >
            This section identifies the [sysObjectID](https://oidref.com/1.3.6.1.2.1.1.2) that `ktranslate` uses to map devices to this profile during [SNMP discovery](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/troubleshooting/snmp-discovery-unexpected-profile/).

            The syntax here is a list of OIDs. Support is provided for a wildcard match using the `*` symbol to account for large groups of devices without annotating them individually. Additionally, adding a YAML comment in line here will allow `ktranslate` to set the value of `tags.kentik.model` that will be decorated on the payloads sent to New Relic.

            ```yaml
            sysobjectid:
              - 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.3.17    # APC SmartUPS 3 Phase
              - 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.3.*     # APC UPS
              - 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.*         # APC device
            ```
            </Collapser>
            <Collapser
              id="matches"
              title="'matches' section"
            >

>             This section provides an optional second level of filtering to be used with the `sysobjectid` mapping during discovery. In cases where a single SysObjectID is used for various devices, you can further isolate your device with a regular expression matching the contents of the [SysDescr](https://oidref.com/1.3.6.1.2.1.1.1) OID. The expression will match on a forced lower case version of the `SysDescr` string. You can see an example in the [net-snmp.yml](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/blob/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/_general/net-snmp.yml) profile.

Author: `SysObjectID` is the formal name of the attribute; `sysobjectid` is the setting in a YAML file. I'd defer to you on formatting (I'm not against it)

            ```
            metrics:
              - MIB: PowerNet-MIB_UPS
                table:
                  OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.12.1.2
                  name: upsOutletGroupStatusTable
                symbols:
                  - ...
                metric_tags:
                  - column:
                      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.12.1.2.1.2
                      name: upsOutletGroupStatusName
            metric_tags:
              - column:
                  OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.1.2.3.0
                  name: upsAdvIdentSerialNumber
            ```
            </Collapser>
            <Collapser
              id="conversions"
              title="Metric conversions available"
            >
            There are numerous conversions available to manipulate the results from SNMP polling.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                        </Collapser>
                   </CollapserGroup>
```

                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  `metrics.metric_tags.column.OID`
                </td>
                <td>
                  ✓
                </td>
                <td>
                  The target column OID string used as a metric tag attribute.
                </td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>

          <Callout variant="tip">
            `metric_tags` can refer to OIDs outside of the original MIB table as long as their index value aligns on the target row.
          </Callout>
        </TabsPageItem>
        <TabsPageItem id="5">
          This section applies the defined metric tags globally to the entire profile to decorate all metrics. The syntax is identical to the `metric_tags` section from a tabular OID configuration, but instead of indenting the snippet, it sits at the root of the config file.

          ```yaml
          metric_tags:
            - tag: $YOUR_TAG_VALUE
              column:
                name: $OID_NAME_FROM_MIB
                OID: $OID_STRING
          ```
        </TabsPageItem>
        <TabsPageItem id="6">

>           Putting all of these sections together, here is an example of the profile used for [APC UPS devices](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/blob/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/apc/apc_ups.yml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          Putting all of these sections together, here's an example of the profile used for [APC UPS devices](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/blob/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/apc/apc_ups.yml):
```

                  enum:
                    upsOutletGroupStatusOn: 1
                    upsOutletGroupStatusOff: 2
                    upsOutletGroupStatusUnknown: 3
              metric_tags:
                - tag: outlet_group_name
                  column:
                    OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.12.1.2.1.2
                    name: upsOutletGroupStatusName
          metric_tags:
            - column:
                OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.1.1.1.0
                name: upsBasicIdentModel
              tag: model
            - column:
                OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.1.2.3.0
                name: upsAdvIdentSerialNumber
              tag: serial_number
            - column:
                OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.1.2.1.0
                name: upsAdvIdentFirmwareRevision
              tag: firmware_version
            - column:
                OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.318.1.1.1.1.1.2.0
                name: upsBasicIdentName
              tag: ups_name
          ```
        </TabsPageItem>
      </TabsPages>
    </Tabs>
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="snmp-traps"
    title="SNMP traps"
  >
    ## Background

>     Creation of SNMP trap message (also known as alerts, events, informs, or notifications) profiles is quite simple and generally only requires you investigate the vendor's MIB file to understand various trap message options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The creation of SNMP trap message profiles (also known as alerts, events, informs, or notifications) is quite simple. Generally it only requires you to investigate the vendor's MIB file to understand various trap message options.
```

              DESCRIPTION
          	"This is the new status in the notification."
              ::= { vmwVC 305 }
          
          vmwVpxdObjValue OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX     VmwLongSnmpAdminString
              MAX-ACCESS accessible-for-notify
              STATUS     current
              DESCRIPTION
          	"This is the current object value in the notification."
              ::= { vmwVC 306 }
          
          vmwVpxdTargetObj OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX     SnmpAdminString
              MAX-ACCESS accessible-for-notify
              STATUS     current
              DESCRIPTION
          	"This is the current object in the notification. This may be
          	one of esx host name, vm name, or other. This value must not be empty."
              ::= { vmwVC 307 }
          
          vmwVpxdTargetObjType OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX   INTEGER { unknown(1), host(2), vm(3), other(4)}
              MAX-ACCESS accessible-for-notify
              STATUS     current
              DESCRIPTION
          	"This is the alarm target object type."
              ::= { vmwVC 308 }
          ```

          This snippet contains 2 major sections:

>           * **Notifications by an agent that implements this mib module** - This is the definition of an actual trap message, identified by a unique OID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * **Notifications by an agent that implements this MIB module**: This is the definition of an actual trap message, identified by a unique OID.
```

Reviewer 2: Should `MIB` be capitalized as I did above?

>             * [vmwVCNotifications](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vmwVCNotifications) - This is the root notification OID which will cover the 3 defined types of messages available: [vpxdAlarm](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vpxdAlarm), [vpxdDiagnostic](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vpxdDiagnostic), and [vpxdAlarmInfo](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vpxdAlarmInfo).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * [vmwVCNotifications](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vmwVCNotifications): This is the root notification OID which will cover the three defined types of messages available: [vpxdAlarm](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vpxdAlarm), [vpxdDiagnostic](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vpxdDiagnostic), and [vpxdAlarmInfo](https://www.circitor.fr/Mibs/Html/V/VMWARE-VC-EVENT-MIB.php#vpxdAlarmInfo).
```

>           * **Notification parameters** - Commonly referred to as 'variable bindings' or 'varbinds', these are the unique key:value pairs of alert data that the SNMP agent can possibly send as decorations on the trap messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * **Notification parameters**: Commonly referred to as `variable bindings` or `varbinds`, these are the unique `key:value` pairs of alert data that the SNMP agent can possibly send as decorations on the trap messages.
```

>             * In this MIB, there are 8 possible varbinds; all referenced as the OIDs ranging from `1.3.6.1.4.1.6876.4.3.301` - `1.3.6.1.4.1.6876.4.3.308`. This will be unique to every vendor and MIB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * In this MIB, there are eight possible varbinds&mdash;all referenced as the OIDs ranging from `1.3.6.1.4.1.6876.4.3.301` - `1.3.6.1.4.1.6876.4.3.308`. This will be unique to every vendor and MIB.
```

        </TabsPageItem>
        <TabsPageItem id="2">
          Basic Outline

          <CollapserGroup>
            <Collapser
              id="trap-oid"
              title="'trap_oid' section"
            >
            This is the OID that identifies the actual trap message.
            </Collapser>
            <Collapser
              id="trap-name"
              title="'trap_name' section"
            >
            This is the name of the trap message, as defined by the MIB.
            </Collapser>
            <Collapser
              id="drop-undefined"
              title="'drop_undefined' section"
            >
            This is an optional setting which allows you to forcibly drop all SNMP trap messages from this MIB which are not explicitly defined in this profile. (Default: `false`)
            </Collapser>
            <Collapser
              id="events"
              title="'events' section"
            >
            This section defines the various varbinds that can apply to this specific trap message type.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                         </Collapser>
                    </CollapserGroup>
```

                  OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.6876.4.3.307.0
                  tag: object_name
                - name: vmwVpxdTargetObjType
                  OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.6876.4.3.308.0
                  enum:
                    unknown: 1
                    host: 2
                    vm: 3
                    other: 4
                  tag: object_type
          ```

          <Callout variant="tip">
            You do not need to create individual trap profiles for every device type. Instead `ktranslate` expects a single `traps.yml` profile for each vendor directory which defines all potential traps available for that vendor. Examples are in the [snmp-profiles repository](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Akentik%2Fsnmp-profiles+path%3A**%2Ftraps.yml&type=code&ref=advsearch)
          </Callout>
        </TabsPageItem>
      </TabsPages>
    </Tabs>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Use custom profiles privately [#private]

The contents of the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles) repository are loaded to `ktranslate` by default when you build the container or service and are therefore globally applied to all instances.

> To support full customization options that allow you to maintain your own collection settings and patterns; you can clone the repository, make changes as you see fit, and load your custom profile directory into your Docker container or Linux service on startup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To support full customization options so you can maintain your own collection settings and patterns, do the following: 
1. Clone the repository.
1. Make changes as you see fit.
1. Load your custom profile directory into your Docker container or Linux service on startup.
```

The way this is done is by mapping your customized files to the KTranslate instance inside the `etc/ktranslate/profiles/` directory.

> Assuming you are in a directory just above `snmp-profiles`, the command to add will look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming you are in a directory just above `snmp-profiles`, the command to add looks  like this:
```

```shell
`pwd`/snmp-profiles/profiles:/etc/ktranslate/profiles
```

For Docker, you would add this as a [volume mount](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/#start-a-container-with-a-volume), which would look similar to this:

```shell
docker run -d --name ktranslate-$CONTAINER_SERVICE --restart unless-stopped --pull=always -p 162:1620/udp \
  -v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
  -v `pwd`/snmp-profiles/profiles:/etc/ktranslate/profiles
  -e NEW_RELIC_API_KEY=$NR_LICENSE_KEY \
kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
  -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
  -nr_account_id=$NR_ACCOUNT_ID \
  -metrics=jchf \
  -tee_logs=true \
  -service_name=$CONTAINER_SERVICE \
  -snmp_discovery_on_start=true \
  -snmp_discovery_min=180 \
  nr1.snmp
```

For a Linux service, you will edit the contents of `/etc/ktranslate/profiles` on the local host.

<Callout variant="tip">

>   Be sure to pass your custom version of the profiles in every time you launch a container or service to remove the risk of inconsistent behavior in your environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  To remove the risk of inconsistent behavior in your environment, be sure to pass in your custom version of the profiles every time you launch a container or service. 
```

</Callout>

## Contribute to the public repository [#public]

As an open source repo, contributions are welcome from anyone to create new profiles or improve the existing profiles that will enhance the monitoring capabilities for all users.

> New Relic is not involved in the process of reviewing profiles on the third-party repo, all requests for changes and updates must be addressed with Kentik's maintainers via Github issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New Relic isn't involved in the process of reviewing profiles on the third-party repo. All requests for changes and updates must be addressed with Kentik's maintainers via Github issues.
```

> Shortly after a profile is merged new SNMP profiles are automatically available by pulling the new version of the Docker image and launching a new container in your environment. For a Linux service, a new release needs to be created on the [kentik/ktranslate](https://github.com/kentik/ktranslate) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shortly after a profile is merged, new SNMP profiles are automatically available. You can pull the new version of the Docker image and launch a new container in your environment. For a Linux service, create a new release on the [kentik/ktranslate](https://github.com/kentik/ktranslate) repository.
```

Author: this isn't quite right. the process of creating a new release on the ktranslate repo is a manual process that one of the repo maintainers has to kick off. various customers/users will not be able to do this step.

## What kinds of OIDs should I include? [#oids]

> In many cases SNMP offers a lot of data, but little provides actionable information. The [sample SNMP walk](#snmp-polling) above has 2,022 rows of results from OIDs, and the [resulting profile](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/blob/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/apc/apc_ups.yml) collects about 50 total OIDs. Following the basic patterns of **"Golden Signals"** defined by the [Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) discipline](https://sre.google/sre-book/monitoring-distributed-systems/); focus on collecting data that lets you know if there is anything that would stop the device from being able to perform whatever functions you expect it to perform. Building on from that, you should collect measurements that tell you how well it is performing those functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In many cases SNMP offers a lot of data, but little provides actionable information. The [sample SNMP walk](#snmp-polling) above has 2,022 rows of results from OIDs, and the [resulting profile](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/blob/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/apc/apc_ups.yml) collects about 50 total OIDs. Following the basic patterns of **"Golden Signals"** defined by the [Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) discipline](https://sre.google/sre-book/monitoring-distributed-systems/); focus on collecting data that lets you know if there is anything that would stop the device from being able to perform whatever functions you expect it to perform. Building from that, you should collect measurements that tell you how well it is performing those functions.
```

**Example 1:**

For a device operating as a VPN concentrator, we would collect high-level system metrics like:

* CPU and memory utilization
* Hardware sensor information to make sure that the device isn't going to shut itself down due to things like fan failures
* OIDs that tell us about the aggregated connections and throughput

**Example 2:**

> An example of data that is available but provides very poor value is an OID table that lists all the running processes on a network appliance. That might sound useful, but since this is an appliance, you normally do not have the capability or the need to do anything with the processes that run inside it. Polling and storing tables with hundreds of items that you can't actually do anything with would not be efficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An OID table that lists all the running processes on a network appliance is an example of data that is available but not helpful. 

Collecting all running processes might sound useful, but since this is an appliance, you normally do not have the capability or the need to do anything with the processes that run inside it. Polling and storing tables with hundreds of items that you can't actually do anything with would not be efficient.
```
